# ARIMAandVAR
Macroeconomic Projections using time series econometrics
Abstract
Assessing the impacts of external shocks often involves measuring and modelling the past and using the historical information to make predictions for the future. In the recent scenario of COVID lockdown, wherein the imposed restrictions by the government for the benefit of larger society had stalled the economic activity in the country. In this paper, the economic activity is predicted while maintaining that the event in question had never happened in the first place. These predictions are then compared to the actual measurements (which are taken after the event has happened) and any differences – while taking into account all other changes to be constant – are then interpretable as the impact of that event. We adopt this methodology in the context of the coronavirus pandemic and use this framework to assess the quantitative impact of the lockdown and disruptions on measures of growth: The Gross Domestic Product, The Industrial Index of Production and its components. 
In order to model these indexes, we collect historical data and explore the use of time series models such as VAR (Vector AutoRegression) and SARIMA (Seasonally adjusted Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average). Using corresponding techniques and diagnostic tests, all models are developed and evaluated. We find that the in-sample projections from our models are in line with the actual data given suitable margins for error. With this confidence, we then forecast these measures for a period during the coronavirus lockdown (Apr to June) and compare them to actual values (as released by the government authorities) to find that all indicators show significant declines. 
Owing to the methodology, these declines – 28% for GDP in the quarter Apr – Jun 2020 and 55% for IIP General Index, 66% for Manufacturing Index, 26% for Mining Index and 20% for Electricity Index in the month of April – are interpretable as the impacts of the coronavirus on the growth performance of India. We also find that these declines are persistent till the month of July (for which actual figures are available) but that the declines are steadily decreasing indicating a slow but continual recovery of the India from the grasp of the coronavirus.
JEL classification: E17, E27, E32
Keywords: Forecasting, Economic Outlook, GDP Growth, Time Series Models
